NAME
====

seccomp_syscall_priority - Prioritize syscalls in the seccomp filter

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    typedef void * scmp_filter_ctx;

    int SCMP_SYS(syscall_name);

    int seccomp_syscall_priority(scmp_filter_ctx ctx,
     int syscall, uint8_t priority);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

The **seccomp_syscall_priority**() function provides a priority hint
to the seccomp filter generator in libseccomp such that higher priority
syscalls are placed earlier in the seccomp filter code so that they
incur less overhead at the expense of lower priority syscalls. A
syscall's priority can be set regardless of if any rules currently
exist for that syscall; the library will remember the priority and it
will be assigned to the syscall if and when a rule for that syscall is
created.

While it is possible to specify the *syscall* value directly using the
standard **__NR_syscall** values, in order to ensure proper operation
across multiple architectures it is highly recommended to use the
**SCMP_SYS**() macro instead. See the EXAMPLES section below.

The *priority* parameter takes an 8-bit value ranging from 0 - 255; a
higher value represents a higher priority.

The filter context *ctx* is the value returned by the call to
**seccomp_init**().

RETURN VALUE
============

The **seccomp_syscall_priority**() function returns zero on success,
negative errno values on failure. The **SCMP_SYS**() macro returns a
value suitable for use as the *syscall* value in
**seccomp_syscall_priority**().

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	int rc = -1;
    	scmp_filter_ctx ctx;

    	ctx = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_KILL);
    	if (ctx == NULL)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    	rc = seccomp_syscall_priority(ctx, SCMP_SYS(read), 200);
    	if (rc < 0)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    out:
    	seccomp_release(ctx);
    	return -rc;
    }

NOTES
=====

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>

SEE ALSO
========

**seccomp_rule_add**(3), **seccomp_rule_add_exact**(3)
